examples and reorg beginning (#816)
intersystems-community/vscode-objectscript: docs/Configuration.md

permalink: /configuration/
nav_order: 4
---

# Configuration

> VS Code settings enable you to customize various aspects of its function. The InterSystems extensions provide settings used to configure VS Code for ObjectScript development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VS Code settings enable you to customize various aspects of its behavior. The InterSystems extensions provide settings used to configure VS Code for ObjectScript development.
```

{: #code-configuration-basic}

## Basic Configuration

> VS Code has a concept of a workspace, which is a set of directories you want to use when you're working on a particular project. In the simplest setup when you are working within a single directory, a VS Code workspace is just the root folder of your project. In this case you keep your settings in two files inside a `.vscode` directory located at the root of your project. Those two files are `settings.json`, which contains most configuration settings, and `launch.json`, which contains debugging configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VS Code has a concept of a [workspace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/workspaces), which is a set of directories you want to use when you're working on a particular project. In the simplest setup when you are working within a single directory, a VS Code workspace is just the root folder of your project. In this case you keep workspace-specific settings in two files inside a `.vscode` directory located at the root of your project. Those two files are `settings.json`, which contains most configuration settings, and `launch.json`, which contains debugging configurations.
```

> Here is the simplest `settings.json` file contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the simplest `settings.json` file content for an ObjectScript project:
```

{: #code-workspace-simple}

```json
{
    "objectscript.conn": {
        "ns": "USER",
        "active": true, 
        "host": "localhost", 
        "port": 52773, 
        "username": "_SYSTEM" 
    }
}
```

> However, a better strategy is to let the InterSystems Server manager handle the server connection information as described [later](#config-server). That extension also allows you to store your password securely, so please use it. Then in `settings.json` you only need to specify the server name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, a better strategy is to let the [InterSystems Server Manager](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=intersystems-community.servermanager) handle the server connection information as described [later](#config-server). That extension also allows you to store your password securely, so please use it. Then in `settings.json` you only need to specify the server name, which you set up in Server Manager:
```

```json
{
    "objectscript.conn": {
        "server": "iris",
        "ns": "USER",
        "active": true
    }
}
```

> If you need ObjectScript compilation flags other than the default, add an `"objectscript.compileFlags"` property to `settings.json` (more compileFlags options are [covered here](/vscode-objectscript/settings/)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need ObjectScript compilation flags other than the default ones, add an `"objectscript.compileFlags"` property to `settings.json` (more compileFlags information is [available here](/vscode-objectscript/settings#vscode-objectscript)):
```

{: #code-workspace-compileFlags}

```json
{
    "objectscript.conn": {
        "server": "iris",
        "ns": "USER",
        "active": true, 
    },
    "objectscript.compileFlags": "cuk/compileembedded=1"
}
```

> Here is the simplest `launch.json` file contents, which debugs the method `Test` in the class `Example.Service`, passing 2 parameters as input (see ["Running and Debugging"](/vscode-objectscript/rundebug/) for more information):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the simplest `launch.json` file content, with which you can debug the method `Test` in the class `Example.Service`, passing 2 parameters as input (see ["Running and Debugging"](/vscode-objectscript/rundebug/) for more information):
```

{: #code-workspace-simple-debug}

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "type": "objectscript",
            "request": "launch",
            "name": "Example.Service.Test", 

>             "program": "##class(Example.Service).Test(<methodparam1>,<methodparam2>)"

Reviewer: Do we support <...> placeholders like this? If not I suggest you use some actual values so as to illustrate how doublequotes have to be escaped in JSON, e.g.

```suggestion
            "program": "##class(Example.Service).Test(\"answer\",42)"
```

(please test the above)

        }
    ]
}
```

If you want to debug a running process, `launch.json` should have a section like this, which will present a dropdown menu of running processes:

{: #code-workspace-simple-debug-process}

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "type": "objectscript",
            "request": "attach",
            "name": "Example-attach-to-process", 
            "processId": "${command:PickProcess}"
        }
    ]
}
```

> Note that `"configurations"` is an array, so you can have multiple configurations and choose the one to use from a dropdown menu in the Debug pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `"configurations"` is an array, so you can define multiple configurations and choose the one to use from a dropdown menu in the Debug pane.
```

{: #code-workspaces}

## VS Code Workspaces

If your project requires more than a single root folder, you need to use a feature called multi-root workspaces. See [Multi-root Workspaces](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces) in the VS Code documentation.

> Since you have more than one root folder, settings are stored in a file with a `*.code-workspace` suffix. The file can have any name followed by *.code-workspace*, for example `test.code-workspace`. This file can be located anywhere. The `*.code-workspace` file stores information about what folders are in the workspace, and may also store other settings that would otherwise be stored in `settings.json` or `launch.json`. Settings in a folder's `.vscode/settings.json` or `.vscode/launch.json` will override those in the `*.code-workspace` file, so be careful to use one or the other unless you truly need to leverage this flexibility. You can have a workspace file even if you are only working with a single root folder. Indeed, if you are [working server-side](../serverside/) you will always be using a workspace file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case settings are stored in a file with a `*.code-workspace` suffix. The filename's extension must be *.code-workspace*, for example `test.code-workspace`. This workspace file can be located anywhere. It defines what root folders the workspace consists of, and may also store other settings that would otherwise be stored in `settings.json` or `launch.json`. Settings in a root folder's `.vscode/settings.json` or `.vscode/launch.json` will override those in the workspace file, so be careful to use one or the other unless you truly need to leverage this flexibility.

You can have a workspace file even if you are only working with a single root folder. Indeed, if you are [working server-side](../serverside/) you will always be using a workspace file.
```

> To edit **InterSystems ObjectScript** extension settings in a `*.code-workspace` file in VS Code, open the workspace using **File > Open Workspace...**, select **File > Preferences > Settings** (**Code > Preferences > Settings** on Mac) and select the Workspace tab. Search for **objectscript: conn**, and click on *Edit in settings.json*. VS Code opens the `*.code-workspace` file for that workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit **InterSystems ObjectScript** extension settings in a `*.code-workspace` file in VS Code, open the workspace using **File > Open Workspace from File...**, select **File > Preferences > Settings** (**Code > Preferences > Settings** on Mac) and select the Workspace tab. Search for **objectscript: conn**, and click on *Edit in settings.json*. VS Code opens the `*.code-workspace` file for that workspace.
```

permalink: /configuration/
nav_order: 4
---

# Configuration

VS Code settings enable you to customize various aspects of its function. The InterSystems extensions provide settings used to configure VS Code for ObjectScript development.

{: #code-configuration-basic}

## Basic Configuration

VS Code has a concept of a workspace, which is a set of directories you want to use when you're working on a particular project. In the simplest setup when you are working within a single directory, a VS Code workspace is just the root folder of your project. In this case you keep your settings in two files inside a `.vscode` directory located at the root of your project. Those two files are `settings.json`, which contains most configuration settings, and `launch.json`, which contains debugging configurations.

Here is the simplest `settings.json` file contents:

{: #code-workspace-simple}

```json
{

>     "objectscript.conn": {

Reviewer 2: If the `server` key is present then you don't need the connection information.

Author: Moved the server key to a separate example.

        "server": "iris",
        "ns": "USER",
        "active": true, 
        "host": "localhost", 
        "port": 52773, 
        "username": "_SYSTEM" 
    }
}
```

> If you need ObjectScript compilation flags other than the default, add an `"objectscript.compileFlags"` property to `settings.json` (more compileFlags options are [covered here](/vscode-objectscript/settings/):

Reviewer 2: I don't think this setting needs to be covered here. It has a detailed description in the `package.json` file and Settings Reference page and users who know enough about our technology to want to change it will be able to figure out how to input their flags/qualifiers.

Author: I found it unintuitive to mix single-letter flags with longer qualifiers, and we had an internal user not find the solution also. I think some duplication is good when it comes to documentation.

Reviewer 2: The internal user was unaware of a behavior change w.r.t. when embedded SQL is compiled that was introduced in 2020.1. Having this paragraph added wouldn't address their problem because they didn't know that they needed the `/compileembedded` qualifier, not that they didn't know where to specify it.

Author: Ah got it @isc-bsaviano. I still feel that the syntax is awkward though. After I identified the `/compileembedded` qualifier in the docs, it felt very strange to write `"cuk/compileembedded=1"` instead of, e.g., `c,u,k,/compileembedded=1`, so I think this example can potentially help but never hurt.

{: #code-workspace-compileFlags}

```json
{
    "objectscript.conn": {
        "server": "iris",
        "ns": "USER",
        "active": true, 
        "host": "localhost", 
        "port": 52773, 
        "username": "_SYSTEM" 
    },
    "objectscript.compileFlags": "cuk/compileembedded=1"
}
```

> Here is the simplest `launch.json` file contents, which debugs the method `Test` in the class `Example.Service`, passing 2 parameters as input:

Reviewer 2: This is all covered already on the run/debug page.

Author: Same as above. Some duplication is good in documentation. This being the first section people read, it's valuable to get them up and running as fast as possible. I'll add a reference to the more comprehensive page.

Author: Added a reference to the debugging section
